Malenia was born the child of Queen Marika the Eternal and her second husband, the Elden Lord Radagon.[1] She had an elder twin brother by the name of Miquella.[2] Both Malenia and Miquella were Empyreans,[3] meaning they had the potential to one day replace their mother as a new god of a coming age. But since Radagon and Marika were in fact the same person, Malenia and Miquella were born cursed. Malenia was afflicted with the Scarlet Rot, which ravaged her from within and would cost her several limbs, while Miquella was cursed with eternal childhood, unable to ever grow into adulthood.

At some point, Malenia encountered a blind swordsman who had sealed away an Outer God of Rot.[4] The swordsman became her master, and trained her in the ways of the blade, allowing her to gain wings of unparalleled strength.[5] Malenia would eventually become a warrior without peer. She would attract loyal servants like her Cleanrot Knights (who vowed to fight next to her despite the inevitable gradual putrefaction of their flesh[6]), as well as worshippers, who believed her a goddess. Members of House Marais, who were all sickly born, were naturally drawn to the beautiful and fierce Malenia who became such a powerful warrior in spite of being born into rot,[7] and requiring prosthesis to fight.[8]

Malenia and Miquella were close, and Malenia would become her brother's sworn blade and protector, while Miquella worked tirelessly to try and undo the curses they had both been born into. While unable to find a cure for his sister, Miquella designed a needle of unalloyed gold that could keep the Scarlet Rot ravaging Malenia's body at bay.[9]

The Shattering
After the Elden Ring was shattered, Malenia and Miquella both claimed shards of the broken Elden Ring. During the wars between the demigods which followed the Shattering, Malenia led an army that marched south from the Haligtree. She won many battles, even humbling fellow demigod and shardbearer, Godrick the Grafted,[10] who groveled at her feet for mercy after first insulting her and then suffering defeat.


Malenia and Radahn in Caelid.

Malenia and her half-brother Radahn would eventually be the last two demigods left standing in the conflict. Their forces clashed in the Caelid Wilds, and the two fought a bitter duel for supremacy. In the midst of the combat with Radahn, the Scarlet Rot was unleashed by Malenia, resulting in her first bloom. The blooming of the Scarlet Rot devastated Caelid, leaving it a rotting wasteland, and caused Radahn to rapidly degenerate, losing his wits and cursing him to wander the battlefield as a mindless beast, feasting on the bodies of friend and foe alike.

Malenia herself was not unaffected. Unleashing the Scarlet Rot left her in a coma. She was rescued by one of her Cleanrot Knights, Finlay, and brought to the Haligtree to await her brother's rebirth, as he had encased himself within the Haligtree in an effort to reverse his curse. However, either during Malenia's absence, or during her slumber, Miquella was ripped from the womb of the tree and taken away by Mohg, Lord of Blood before he could emerge from his cocoon.

While Malenia slept, the Scarlet Rot seeped out from her and began infecting the Haligtree. When she had blossomed in Caelid, she had inadvertently birthed the Kindred of Rot, who worshipped her as a goddess[11] and hoped to cause her to bloom once again, believing that she would usher in a new age of rot. Malenia's slumber was eventually disturbed by a Tarnished champion, who found their way to the roots of the Haligtree. The two fought, and Malenia finally met her match and suffered her first true defeat. However, in the end Malenia succumbed to the Scarlet Rot and blossomed yet again, reborn as a nascent goddess. She unleashed her full fury against the invader, but would fall short yet again, her dying words an apology to her vanished brother.