Bubble Bass seems to be a stereotypically rude "neckbeard" character. He's an obese, olive green-skinned bass who wears a light orange barely-fitting tank top, orange-brown pants and black glasses. His lips and other parts of his body are olive-green, while his stomach is a lighter green. He has a slight lisp and breathes very deeply.

Personality
Bubble Bass is unmannerly, arrogant and rude, in that he lied to SpongeBob about the pickles missing from his Krabby Patty to destroy his confidence and get free food. Aside from this, he also promised to give SpongeBob and Patrick free lunches if they helped pack his things, only to make them do all the work and selfishly eat the free lunches he ordered for them at the end in front of them, displaying no regard to their honest effort.

He has also shown signs of being cowardly, lazy, and lacking responsibility for his actions. At the end of "Pickles," he runs out of the Krusty Krab in fear of the restaurant reprimanding him for deception. In "Moving Bubble Bass," his laziness and selfishness is further shown when he pretends to be injured to have an excuse to not help pack up his stuff. The only reason he moved out in the first place was so he didn't have to do chores.

Bubble Bass owns an extensive collection of action figures. He is very protective of them, getting upset when they are destroyed or mishandled, as seen in "Squid Noir" and "Swamp Mates." He enjoys The Adventures of Mermaid Man and Barnacle Boy, owning a lot of merchandise based on the series and watching a marathon of it in "Lost in Couch." Bubble Bass is also a dedicated fan of the fantasy board game Three Deadly Challenges, creating an elaborate recreation of it in his basement. This habit he has surprises and impresses both SpongeBob and Patrick, who praise his hobby. Squidward dislikes his hobby, as he considers it to be boring and silly.

Bubble Bass has been known to make overly complicated orders at the Krusty Krab, as seen in "Pickles," "Larry the Floor Manager," "Broken Alarm," "Bubble Bass's Tab," and "Sea-Man Sponge Haters Club."

Abilities and talents
Hiding things under his tongue: Bubble Bass hid the pickles under his tongue, which drove SpongeBob insane. Bubble Bass also hid a woman's car keys.
Lying: Bubble Bass can lie very well, tricking SpongeBob and Patrick.
Strength: Bubble Bass is very physically strong despite his out of shape appearance. He was able to throw Squidward around like a ragdoll and push away an entire crowd of people with no effort.
Running really fast: Bubble Bass was able to quickly run out of the Krusty Krab before anyone could catch him.

His brown version.

Role in series

Bubble Bass' model sheet

Bubble Bass is a recurring character in the series. He makes his debut in the episode "Pickles" as the main antagonist. He then later appears in the season 1 episodes "F.U.N." and "Fools in April," but his color is brown instead of green. He has then remained absent from the series from seasons 2-7 but makes a comeback in the season 8 episode "Plankton's Good Eye." He then once again became a recurring character in the series in the second half of season 9. Bubble Bass has also made some minor appearances as a non-speaking background character among other incidentals in a few episodes throughout the series.

Major roles in series
SpongeBob SquarePants
"Pickles"
Bubble Bass places a complicated order, which SpongeBob serves. However, Bubble Bass claims that SpongeBob forgot the pickles, so SpongeBob goes into a state of shock and takes time off of work, claiming he has forgotten how to make Krabby Patties altogether.

However, SpongeBob later gets his confidence back and resumes his role as a fry cook at the Krusty Krab when Bubble Bass returns once again. Again, he orders a Krabby Patty from SpongeBob with pickles, which the latter delivers, only to hear Bubble Bass claim that there are still no pickles and tells SpongeBob that he has failed again. However, SpongeBob realizes that Bubble Bass had been hiding the pickles underneath his tongue the entire time from both Krabby Patties to avoid paying for them and to make SpongeBob look bad, and exposes Bubble Bass of his true colors.

At the mercy of the angry customers, Bubble Bass escapes before they can punish him.

"F.U.N."
Bubble Bass makes a minor appearance in this episode when he accidentally plops himself on top of Plankton, essentially smashing him. Bubble Bass gives a mean smile and squishes Plankton with his buttocks when SpongeBob asks him to move. He eventually leaves when SpongeBob throws popcorn in his direction.

At the end of the episode, he confuses Plankton for a jelly bean and chases him about his hand when he starts running for his life.

"Plankton's Good Eye"
Bubble Bass appears briefly in this episode when he falls out of a window as a result of his house burning and crushes Plankton again. He is also seen when SpongeBob gives Plankton the "great big hug."

"Bulletin Board"
Bubble Bass supports "P-Star 7," claiming he's a "true hero for our troubled times." He also writes a message on the bulletin board under the name of "HandsomeLad42" and mocks SpongeBob after he receives an insulting message from P-Star7. Later in the episode, Bubble Bass himself gets an insulting message from P-Star7 and gets into a fight with Squidward.

"Whirly Brains"
He's seen walking across the street while eating ice cream. However, as he's walking, the kid's Whirly Brain flies into his butt while SpongeBob and Patrick's Whirly Brains fly above him.

"Larry the Floor Manager"
Bubble Bass is holding the line up in the Krusty Krab by ordering a large and very strange order, which causes Mr. Krabs to angrily shoves a Krabby Patty into his mouth and tells him to order what's on the menu. Later in the episode, when the Krusty Krab is transformed into a gym, he squishes Squidward by accident while complaining about the protein power shake's taste. Even later, he's seen eating sand when the camera pans to all the hungry customers. Near the episode's end, he helps SpongeBob and the other customers turn the Krusty Krab back to normal.

"Krabby Patty Creature Feature"
Bubble Bass, confronting a zombie Mr. Krabs at night, unaware of his condition, thinks he is wearing a costume and eats the real pickles on his "fake" costume, causing him to transform into a Double Triple Bossy Deluxe. He is later seen in the Chum Bucket moments after him and the rest of the Bikini Bottomites are cured of the infection from the tainted meat and goes with others to the Krusty Krab to celebrate the town being saved.

"Squid Noir"
Squidward confronts him about stealing his clarinet as earlier in the episode Bubble Bass gets annoyed by Squidward. After Squidward confronts him and he denies it, he and SpongeBob fight with action figures in which SpongeBob won and Bubble Bass ultimately lost.

"Moving Bubble Bass"
Bubble Bass is the antagonist of this episode. He is annoyed with his mother's nagging and decides to move out so he doesn't have to do any chores. Pretending to be injured so he doesn't have to help, SpongeBob and Patrick move his stuff to his grandmother's home. He then displays his antagonistic nature at the end, as he ate the free lunches that he promised SpongeBob and Patrick. However, he gets his comeuppance when the two yell at him and leave him. Then, his mother is revealed to have been packed in the box. She accuses him of doing this and stuffs him in the same box as she wheels him around, intentionally crashing into things as payback for her being stuffed in a box even though he protests his innocence in the act.

"High Sea Diving"
When Mr. Krabs is selling SpongeBob merchandise, Bubble Bass approaches him and asks how much Patrick is, thinking he's a standee. Mr. Krabs offers him twenty dollars, but Bubble Bass rips off Patrick's arm and says that he is damaged. Mr. Krabs then offers him ten dollars, and Bubble Bass accepts.

"Swamp Mates"
Bubble Bass appears as the main protagonist in this episode. During a playdate with Patrick, his Wonder Whale action figure becomes lost, so he and Patrick go to a swamp to find it. They eventually find the figure in the hands of Hoodoo Guru and Bubble Bass manages to get it back from him. However Hoodoo Guru then chases them down the swamp after Bubble Bass takes his Wonder Whale back from him. Bubble Bass and Patrick eventually wake up back in Bubble Bass's basement only to find out that the whole swamp sequence was just a dream.

"Hiccup Plague"
He is seen turning inside-out due to a massive hiccup and is also seen telling SpongeBob to put some pickles under his tongue to get rid of his hiccups.

"Bubble Bass's Tab"
Like "Moving Bubble Bass," Bubble Bass is the antagonist of this episode. Mr. Krabs becomes conflicted that Bubble Bass has never payed his tab for all the food he eats at the Krusty Krab, so Mr. Krabs orders SpongeBob and Squidward to go to Bubble Bass' house to force Bubble Bass to pay his tab. After SpongeBob and Squidward defeat Bubble Bass in his game, Bubble Bass is forced to work at the Krusty Krab until his tab is all payed up. However the customers get disturbed by Bubble Bass's service at the Krusty Krab and decide to give Mr. Krabs money in order to get his tab all paid up. After his tab was all paid up, Bubble Bass orders more food from the Krusty Krab and puts it on his new tab, much to Mr. Krabs' anger.

"A Place for Pets"
He appears as one of the customers who got kicked out of the Krusty Krab when Mr. Krabs decides to make the Krusty Krab a place for pets to eat only. He later disguises himself as a sea bunny along with the other customers who disguised themselves as pets in order to eat at the Krusty Krab.

The Patrick Star Show
"Lost in Couch"
Patrick somehow ends up under Bubble Bass's couch while searching for the lost remote where he nearly gets squished by Bubble Bass's bottom while he sat on the couch.

"Terror at 20,000 Leagues"
Patrick and Squidina arrive at Bubble Bass's house to Trick or Treat. It is revealed that only holiday he celebrates is the Shell City Comic Convention.

"The Yard Sale"
He stops by the yard sale and looks at the rusty old tools, he takes the vintage nose-hair pullers, until GrandPat stops him and telling him that it was his teeth yanking pullers from the Dark Ages.