Zote the Mighty is an NPC in Hollow Knight.


Contents
1	Lore
2	In-game events
3	Dialogue
3.1	After Colosseum
4	Locations
5	Gallery
6	Achievements
7	Trivia
8	References
Lore
Zote is a traveller from outside Hallownest who came to the Kingdom to fulfill a promise.[3] This is ultimately revealed to be a promise of glory for himself.[4]

He named his nail "Life Ender" because names supposedly have power.[5] Unfortunately, because it is made of shellwood, it cannot deal damage.[6]

While he claims to be the strongest warrior in the land, he is found trapped by weak enemies or claiming the glory of another bug's deeds. He regards the Knight as beneath him and accuses them of constantly getting in his way.[7]

In-game events

Zote in Greenpath

Found along the path leading to Greenpath. He is held in the mandibles of a Vengefly King, and the Knight has the choice to either save him or leave him. If saved, he complains that the Knight got in the way between him and his "prey", he introduces himself and boasts about his supposed mighty deeds.[7][8]

If he is not saved before acquiring the Mantis Claw, he dies in this location, with his nail and shell remaining. Hitting his shell here grants the Neglect achievement.

If he is saved in Greenpath, Zote shows up in Dirtmouth, where he once again talks to the Knight in an arrogant fashion.[9]

Zote can be found in a corridor leading back to the storerooms of the City of Tears. He has forgotten the Knight and introduces himself again.[10]


Zote in Deepnest

Found stuck in spider webs, presumably having been captured by the beasts of Deepnest. Once again the Knight has the choice to either save him or leave him, though this time leaving him does not result in his death. If saved, he once again complains about the Knight meddling in his supposed heroics.[11]

If the Knight saves him both times, he is captured and can be found in the resting area of the Colosseum of Fools, where he brags about his skills and how his capture was part of his plan.[12] He then becomes the final boss of the first trial. As a boss, he deals no damage due to his nail being made of shellwood.[6] He simply has to be attacked until the fight is over. He is quite inept in combat and regularly messes up his jumps. Beating him grants the Rivalry achievement.


Zote and Bretta in Dirtmouth

After the defeat, and after Bretta is rescued, he returns to Dirtmouth with the helmet of a Shielded Fool as a supposed "trophy" and claims that he is the new champion while slandering the Knight's reputation.[13] Bretta falls for him, her drawings and dolls of the Knight are replaced by a single portrait of Zote. Here he recites "The Fifty Seven Precepts Of Zote".