Edmund Lowry Jr. is a serial killer who strings up the desecrated and mutilated corpses of his victims throughout New Hanover, Big Valley and Lemoyne, leaving clues that can be pieced together into a map to his hideout, a cabin southwest of Valentine.
Events of Red Dead Redemption 2
“ 	My name is Edmund, Edmund Lowry Jr. And you'll remember that, my friend. 	„
	—Edmund Lowry Jr. to Curtis Malloy 	

After finding all three clues from the crime scenes, the player can go to Edmund's basement, which is filled to the brim with murder weapons and the remains of various victims, some nothing but polished skulls while other fresh and stretched open carcasses. Also proudly strung up on the walls are newspaper clippings describing the many disappearances and serial murders he had commited.

After inspecting a knife at the back of the basement, Edmund sneaks up on the protagonist and knocks them out, taunting them with threats of torture as they lie dazed. However, the player manages to throw a severed head at him, and beats him into unconsciousness. The player then ties him up and takes him to the Valentine jail as a de facto bounty.

Upon waking, Edmund pretends to surrender as he is escorted into his cell, but suddenly attacks Sheriff Malloy the second his restraints are undone.

    If the player decides to intervene: With the Sheriff on the ground desperately trying to defend himself, the player shoots Lowry Jr, killing him and saving Malloy. The Sheriff is shaken but grateful, and rewards the player with $20.

    If the player decides not to intervene: Malloy eventually manages to force Lowry Jr. off and shoots him in the chest when he’s on the floor next to him. Angry that the player did not assist him, Malloy doesn’t pay them and asks them to get out.

News of Lowry Jr.'s death is subsequently reported in the newspaper.
Character
Personality

Edmund is a very sick and twisted individual, stringing up the mutilated bodies of those he killed up for any passerby to see. Edmund seems to want recognition as a serial killer, wanting everyone to remember his name and even planting maps to his location at the locations of the mutilated bodies as some sort of jigsaw puzzle and going so far as to propose to a newspaper they move his story to the front page in a letter. He also lacks rationality, attacking Sheriff Malloy as soon as his cuffs were undone despite the fact that both Malloy and the protagonist were armed. He's very sadistic, preferring to toy and monologue with his victims before violently murdering them, evidence in the basement suggests he tortures people for an extended period of time. A missing poster for a woman, Eliza Bloom, present in his basement indicates that he enjoys "trophies" relating to or from his victims. Edmund is also narcissistic, describing himself in a Letter to the Editor of a newspaper as "a man of great intelligence, power, and no small amount of cunning."
Appearance

Edmund is a very fancy looking man, he wears a brown vest, red bow-tie, and a white undershirt with the sleeves rolled up. Physically he has very shortly trimmed brown hair, and a handlebar mustache, 