Valentine is a livestock town, a short ride away from the Horseshoe Overlook camp; the first camp the gang makes after their exodus from the frigid mountains.

Several suppliers and businesses can be found within the town including two saloons, a butcher, a doctor, a general store, a gunsmith, a newspaper stand, a stable, and a hotel.

The northern section of Valentine contains the main street with most of the buildings and businesses. The southern section is home to the livestock yards, including various pens, and the auction yard. The east side of town is home to a smaller saloon, a few homes, and the town church.  

Temperatures in Valentine are fairly cool and rarely reach double figures (Celsius), even during the day. The nights are also fairly cool, although the temperature won’t usually drop below freezing. Valentine is on approximately the same latitude as Van Horn Trading Post.  
Layout

Valentine is connected to the railway network by a train station situated south-east of the town. Within the station is a post office, where the player can pay off bounties, receive and send mail, or purchase train tickets. Right outside of the station is a stagecoach, where the player can fast travel to a location for a fee.

Northwest of the train station are livestock yards, housing various pens and an auction yard. Across the street to the west is the theater; a tent with a small booth to the right of the entrance where the player can purchase tickets to view a movie inside. Just outside of the theater is a camping site, with a number of tents, wagons, and two campfires. The player may cook on the campfires and even take from the camp's stew pot as they wish. Facing the theater are gallows, where criminals who have been sentenced to death are hanged. Sometimes, executions can be witnessed here, with a gathered crowd to watch.

Just north of the gallows is a butcher's stall, where the player can sell game they have hunted, or buy meat to refill their cores. Across the street and to the north is the stable, an establishment where the player can buy and customize different breeds of horses, purchase customization for their horses, such as saddles or blankets, and alter their horse's hair length and color.
Saints Hotel

Adjacent to the stable is a building under construction, where builders can be seen carrying and hammering down planks of wood. By 1907, this building is complete with red wooden paneling and a grey, tiled roof. Facing this construction site is the Saints Hotel, where the player can rent a room to bathe, change their clothing, and sleep to refill their cores or to simply pass time.

To the right of the hotel is the bank; a location the player can rob for large sums of money. This bank is robbed in the mission "Sodom? Back to Gomorrah".

Across the street from the bank is Worths General Store; a very useful location where the player can buy a large variety of items such as clothing, food, fishing and hunting bait, ammunition for their weapons, consumables for their horse and a range of tonics. The player can also sell some of their possessions here, most falling under the same categories as the purchasable goods.
Smithfield's Saloon

To the east of the general store is Smithfield's Saloon, where the player can refill their cores by eating meals, or by purchasing and consuming alcoholic beverages. In front of the left window here is a poker table, where the player can gamble and try their luck to win sums of money. Towards the back of the saloon is a barber, operated by Fern, where the player can trim or style their hair and beard.

Facing the saloon is the Law Office; a tall, yellow building owned by J.W Smith and A.J. Mackey. To the east of the Law Office is the Gunsmith, owned by R.L. Dalton. Here, the player can purchase and customize weapons, restock on ammunition and buy tools to maintain their arms such as gun oil.

Across the street from the gunsmith is the Sheriff's Office; a building where the player can collect bounties for a sum of money, and where the player will stay if arrested by any of Valentine's lawmen.
The Valentine Church

Across the adjacent street to the Sheriff's office is Valentine Church; a tall, white, wooden building surrounded by graves. To the south of the church is the second tavern in Valentine, Keane's Saloon. Here, the player can consume alcoholic beverages, eat hot meals to refill their cores, or try their luck in a game of Five Finger Fillet. 