The City of Tears is the capital city of Hallownest which is located in the centre of the kingdom. It is covered in perpetual rainfall that originates from the ceiling above. Its original name was lost to history.


Contents
1	Description
2	Lore
3	How to access
4	Sub-area: Soul Sanctum
5	Sub-area: Pleasure House
6	Sub-area: Watcher's Spire
7	Sub-area: Tower of Love
8	Sub-area: King's Station
9	Special Rooms
9.1	City Storerooms
9.2	Pleasure House Kitchen
10	Gallery
11	Trivia
12	References
Description
The City of Tears is built in an enormous cavern below the Blue Lake. It has numerous large towers with expansive windows which offer views of the city. Going up and down these towers is possible via small lifts.

The city has a notable divide between the rich and poor part. The eastern side of the city is where Hallownest's high society lived.[1][2] The interiors in this part of the City of Tears are more posh and luxurious and contain a red and purple colour pattern, while the west part's interiors appear to be more common and plain with more blue colour tones.


Fountain Square

In the very centre of the city is Fountain Square, where the memorial fountain to the Hollow Knight is located. Hornet can be encountered here as well as Relic Seeker Lemm, the latter only after one of the Dreamers has been defeated.

The Nailsmith's forge and Lemm's shop are located in the western side. This side also contains the City Storerooms Stag Station and the sub-area Soul Sanctum, where the Soul Master boss can be fought. Both Quirrel and Zote can be found in this part of the city under certain conditions.

The eastern side of the city has most of the sub-areas including the Watcher's Spire, and the Tower of Love. The bosses Watcher Knights and the Collector can be fought in these sub-areas, respectively. In one of the towers is the Pleasure House which has the only Hot Spring of the city. Lastly the King's Station Stag Station can be found in the very eastern part of the city.

Lore

Lower eastern area of the city

In the past, the City of Tears was known as "the city at this kingdom's heart",[3] "Hallownest's heart",[4] and "Hallownest's capital city".[5][6][7] One way of entering it was via the Pilgrim's Way, a road starting in the Forgotten Crossroads and going through Greenpath, Fog Canyon, and the Fungal Wastes, ending at the great gate in the western part of the city.[3] Travellers were promised that if they reached the capital, all their wishes would be granted and they could share in the city's glory.[3][4] Goods from all across Hallownest were transported to the capital, though not many were sent back.[8]

The members of Hallownest's high society were the ones who exerted the most influence.[9] Lurien the Watcher appears to have been one of the most influential figures of the city, watching over it with his telescope in the Watcher's Spire.

When the Infection spread across Hallownest, the capital's gates were sealed to stop anyone from entering or leaving the city in an attempt to prevent the Infection from reaching the city.[10][2] However, this proved to be in vain as the entire city became Infected. Water now leaks from the Blue Lake through the cavern's ceiling, causing the rain and giving the capital its current name.[11]

How to access

Fungal Wastes gate

The City of Tears can be first accessed from several other areas of Hallownest. The west main gate can be opened from the Fungal Wastes by using the City Crest on the statue of the Great Knight Hegemol. The east part of the city can be accessed by using the Tram Pass to get to Ancient Basin and then going up.

The Tram can also be used to reach Kingdom's Edge, which has an access point to King's Station on its west side. Lastly, the city can be reached by going to the Resting Grounds and taking the lift there which leads to the east part of the City of Tears.